# Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Linux folders](#linux-folders)
    - [References](#references)
  - [Command-line text editors](#command-line-text-editors)
    - [Vim](#vim)
    - [Emacs (Evil + Org)](#emacs-evil--org)
    - [Beyond interactive text editor](#beyond-interactive-text-editor)
    - [References](#references)
  - [Command-line network tools](#command-line-network-tools)
    - [Getting your IP address](#getting-your-ip-address)
    - [Watching ports in use (Mac)](#watching-ports-in-use-mac)
    - [Listening a port with netcat (Mac)](#listening-a-port-with-netcat-mac)
    - [Sending a request with telnet (Mac)](#sending-a-request-with-telnet-mac)
  - [Command-line HTTP C/S](#command-line-http-cs)
    - [Listening a port and sending a request to this port with curl (Mac)](#listening-a-port-and-sending-a-request-to-this-port-with-curl-mac)
    - [Visiting Baidu from command line](#visiting-baidu-from-command-line)
  - [koa-api-server](#koa-api-server)

<a id="orgf025d53"></a>

## Linux folders

- /bin is for binaries (system-level)
- /boot contains files required for booting
- /dev contains device files
- /etc stands for Etcctera, and is usually used for placing config files
- /home contains home directories for normal users
- /lib holds the libraries
- /media is where removable media gets mounted
- /mnt is where temporary file systems are mounted
- /opt is where optional add-on software is installed
- /root is the home directory for root
- /run keeps runtime variable data
- /sbin stands for super-binaries, which are normally reserved for root
- /usr is a mountable/sharable resource, containing binaries, libraries, configurations, etc.
- /var means 'variable', it holds a lot of local data

<a id="org5549c99"></a>

### References

- [Q&A at ServerFault](https://serverfault.com/questions/24523/meaning-of-directories-on-unix-and-unix-like-systemss)

<a id="org2606aa4"></a>

## Command-line text editors

<a id="org13e4246"></a>

### Vim

1.  Vim modes

    - Normal mode for navigation and manipulation of text.
    - Insert mode for insertion of new text.
    - Visual mode for text seletion with ease.
    - Select mode is similar to visual with a few differences.
    - Command-line mode for entering editor commands.
    - Ex-mode is similar to command-line mode while has better support for batch processing.

2.  Common commands

    1.  Normal mode

        The commands listed below are very limited. For better understanding of what each command stand for, and what tricks can be done by combining different commands in ways you might have never imagined before, you can directly refer to the Vim docs.

        - h,j,k,l for navigation
        - w,e,b for word-level navigation
        - aA,iI,o,s for entering insert mode
        - v for entering visual mode
        - : for entering command-line mode
        - u for undo
        - C-r for redo
        - . for repetition
        - c combined with vim motions to cut anything you want
        - r for replacing a character
        - d<n>d for cutting <n> lines
        - y<n>y for copying <n> lines
        - p for paste
        - / for searching

    2.  Insert mode

        - ESC for returning to normal mode

    3.  Visual mode

        - ESC for returning to normal mode

    4.  Command-line mode

        - ESC for returning to normal mode
        - `:w` write
        - `:q` quit
        - `!` force execution

<a id="orgebe9ba9"></a>

### Emacs (Evil + Org)

In Emacs, nearly all shortcuts can be customized. The commands that I use most are listed below:

- C-c C-d to set a deadline
- C-c C-s to set a schedule
- M-x to choose from functions
- C-c ! to insert a timestamp
- Space a n to enter deft
- Space m a a to enter agenda
- Space m a t to list todos
- C-c C-e to choose from export options
  - C-c C-e l p to export .pdf
  - C-c C-e m m to export .md
- M-Ret Ret to create a title with the same level as the closest one above
- C-x 2 to split current buffer horizontally
- C-x 3 to split current buffer vertically
- C-x b to switch to a specific buffer

<a id="orgfcc99c3"></a>

### Beyond interactive text editor

Besides interactive text editor like `Vim` or `Emacs`, there are stream text editors like `sed` or `awk` which are also very useful, while light-weighted.

<a id="org5e38ac0"></a>

### References

- [Learning the vi Editor](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Learning_the_vi_Editor/Vim/Modes)

<a id="org2ac1c9e"></a>

## Command-line network tools

<a id="orgf59e458"></a>

### Getting your IP address

1.  Internal IP address (Mac)

        ifconfig

2.  External IP address

      ```sh
        curl ip.cn
      ```
      
<a id="org88d92dd"></a>

### Watching ports in use (Mac)

  ```sh
    netstat -f inet -na | grep -i LISTEN
  ```

<a id="org11861b3"></a>

### Listening a port with netcat (Mac)

  ```sh
    nc -l localhost 8888
  ```

<a id="orgef517ad"></a>

### Sending a request with telnet (Mac)

  ```sh
    telnet localhost 8888
  ```

<a id="orgc2e4c34"></a>

## Command-line HTTP C/S

<a id="orgad928b4"></a>

### Listening a port and sending a request to this port with curl (Mac)

  ```sh
    # Start listening
    nc -l localhost 8888

    # Make a request
    curl localhost:8888

    # Below are the outputs at the server side
    # =======================================
    # GET / HTTP/1.1
    # Host: localhost:8888
    # User-Agent: curl/7.54.0
    # Accept: */*

    # After terminate the curl process, the nc process will be terminated as well. Now we start it again.
    nc -l localhost 8888

    # Use HTTP/2 at client side
    curl --http2 localhost:8888

    # Below are the outputs at the server side
    # =======================================
    # GET / HTTP/1.1
    # Host: localhost:8888
    # User-Agent: curl/7.54.0
    # Accept: */*
    # Connection: Upgrade, HTTP2-Settings
    # Upgrade: h2c
    # HTTP2-Settings: AAMAAABkAARAAAAAAAIAAAAA
  ```

<a id="org69891ba"></a>

### Visiting Baidu from command line

  ```sh
    curl baidu.com:80
  ```

<a id="orge49fa41"></a>

## koa-api-server

My repo is at [Github](https://github.com/pkuosa-gabriel/koa-api-server), notes can be seen in the repo.
