# Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [TCP/IP and HTTP](#tcpip-and-http)
    - [TCP/IP](#tcpip)
    - [HTTP](#http)
  - [url, domain name, IP, port](#url-domain-name-ip-port)
  - [`Git` basic operations and commands](#git-basic-operations-and-commands)
  - [`Git` and `Github`](#git-and-github)
  - [`prototype` in `Javascript`](#prototype-in-javascript)
  - [`this` in `Javascript`](#this-in-javascript)
  - [`async` in `Javascript`](#async-in-javascript)
  - [`ES6` and `Javascript`](#es6-and-javascript)

Author: [Gabriel Wu](wuzihua@pku.edu.cn)

<a id="orgd659758"></a>

## TCP/IP and HTTP

<a id="orgd19ca7c"></a>

### TCP/IP

TCP/IP means Transmission Control Protocol & Internet Protocol, which is a suite of protocols including TCP, IP and some other protocols. TCP/IP can also mean the four-layer representation of networks, consisting of the application layer, the transport layer, the network layer and the physical layer (from top to bottom).

TCP/IP uses the client/server model of communication in which a user or machine (a client) is provided a service (like sending a webpage) by another computer (a server) in the network.

<a id="orgcefc4d0"></a>

### HTTP

HTTP means HyperText Transport Protocol. As the name implies, HTTP is a set of rules for transferring **HyperText**, which means more than text. Actually, **HyperText** includes text, images, sound, video, and other file types.

HTTP is an application protocol that runs in the application layer, usually on top of the TCP. However, HTTP can also be based on UDP with the help of other intermediate protocols like QUIC.

Currently, the latest version of HTTP is HTTP/2 which was released in 2015.

<a id="org541614d"></a>

## url, domain name, IP, port

- URL means Uniform Resource Location, is a reference to a web resource that specifies its location on a computer network and a mechanism for retrieving it. A typical URL would consist of a protocol (like `http` or `ftp`), a hostname, and a file name or path.
- A domain name is an identification string separated by several dots, which defines a realm of administrative autonomy, authority or control within the Internet.
- IP is a numerical label assigned to each device connected to a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication. It can be seen as the actual address of a device.
- Ports are like windows or doors of an IP. A port or several ports are opened so that certain requests can be made from either inside or outside.

<a id="org43162e2"></a>

## `Git` basic operations and commands

`Git` commands grouped by operations:

1.  Initialization

    ```sh
    git init
    ```

2.  Branch

    ```sh
    # list all branches
    git branch

    # checkout to another branch
    git checkout <branch>

    # create a new branch and checkout
    git checkout -b <branch_name>

    # remove a branch or branches
    git branch -D <branch_name>
    ```

3.  Remote

    ```sh
    # list all remotes
    git remote

    # add a remote
    git remote add [<options>] <remote_name> <url>

    # remove a remote
    git remote rm <remote_name>

    # push a branch to a remote for the first time
    git push -u <remote_name> <branch_name>

    # clone a repo
    git clone <url>

    # fetch but not merge
    git fetch <remote>

    # pull and try to merge
    git pull <remote>
    ```

4.  Save and cancel

    ```sh
    # stage files
    git add <files>

    # cancel stage
    git checkout -- <files>

    # commit changes
    git commit -m <message>

    # revert 1 commit
    git revert HEAD
    ```

5.  Merge

    ```sh
    # merge a branch
    git merge <branch>
    # merge in squash mode
    git merge <branch> --squash
    ```

6.  Some other commands

    ```sh
    # tag current state
    git tag <tag_name>
    # apply a rebase
    git rebase
    # apply a cherrypick
    git cherrypick
    ```

<a id="org826feaa"></a>

## `Git` and `Github`

`Github` is currently the largest online code-hosting service. `Git` is the core technique of `Github`, yet `Github` is far more than `Git`, by offering other functions like project management, team management, continuous integration and deployment, code review, etc. Some of the functions are provided directly by `Github`, while the rest are enabled by various Github-integrated 3rd-party applications.

<a id="orge34450b"></a>

## `prototype` in `Javascript`

`Javascript`'s OO is totally based on `prototype`. Each `Object` in `Javascript` has a private property which points to its `prototype`, which itself also has a `prototype`. And the chain continues to where the last object points to `null`.

When trying to get a property of an `Object`, the `prototype` chain will be traversed until the property is found. When the traversal is considered to be time-consuming or harmful, `hasOwnProperty()` or `Object.keys()` can be used.

<a id="org0b1a2f9"></a>

## `this` in `Javascript`

In `Javascript`, `this` depends on the context.

In the global execution context (outside of any function), `this` refers to the global object (`window` in a browser, whereas `global` in Node) whether in strict mode or not.

Inside a function, the value of `this` depends on how the function is called.

- When `this` is not explicitly defined by the execution context, it will be defaultly considered to be the global object in non-strict mode, while it will be `undefined` in strict mode.
- When using `.bind()`, e.g., `g = f.bind({someObject})`, `this` will be permanently bound to `someObject`, that is to say, the first argument of the `bind` function.
- When using arrow functions, `this` retains the value of the enclosing lexical context's `this`.
- When a function is called as a method of an object, its `this` is set to the object the method is called on.
- When a function is used as a constructor (with `new`), its `this` is bound to the new object being constructed.
- When a function is used as an event handler, its `this` is _usually_ set to the element the event fired from.
- When the code is called from an inline on-event handler, its `this` is set to the DOM element on which the listener is placed.

<a id="org4f43de4"></a>

## `async` in `Javascript`

Asynchronous codes will not be executed in the literal sequence. They will be scheduled, but may not be run instantly. A typical example is `setTimeOut()`.
The traditional way to cope with asynchronous in `Javascript` is not so elegant. Usually, many callback functions are needed, and there can be the so-called 'callback hell'. However. with the help of `promise`, or `async/await`, which is even newer, now asynchronous codes can be written much more beautifully.

<a id="org461fcd8"></a>

## `ES6` and `Javascript`

`ES6` is the abbreviation of `ECMAScript 6`, a.k.a `ECMAScript 2015`, which is the most important version of the `ECMAScript` standard in the recent years. Many features were imported, including:

- `let` and `const` replacing `var`
- arrow functions which are simple and elegant, and help solve the problem of binding `this`
- classes which are a sugar over the prototype-based OO pattern
- template strings
- default parameter values for functions
- destructuring which supports pattern matching
- and so on

`ECMAScript` was created to standardize JavaScript, so as to foster multiple independent implementations.
